No matter how skillful and creative the designer, if she does not have clear and
detailed knowledge of the users she is designing for, the constrains of the
problem, and the business or organizational goals that are driving design
activities, she will have little chance of success.

Real insight into these topics can't be achieved by digging through the piles of
numbers from different quantitative studies. Rather, this kind of deep knowledge
can only be achieved by qualitative research techniques.

# Qualitative vs Quantitative Research

Any attemtp to reduce human behavior to statistics is likely to overlook
important nuances, which can make an enormous difference to the design of
products. Quantitative research can only answer questions about "how much" or
"how many". Qualitative research can tell you about what, how, and why in
rich-detail that is reflective of the actual complexities of real human
situations.

Social scientists have long realized that human behaviors are too complex and
subject to too many variables to rely solely on quantitative data to understand
them. Designers and usabilitiers borrow techniques from social sciences,
developing many qualitative methods for gathering useful data on user behaviors
to a more pragmatic end: to help create products that better serve user needs.

## The value of qualitative research

It helps us understand:

   * behaviors, attitudes, and aptitudes of potential product users
   * technical, business, and environmental contexts -the domain- of the product
     to be designed
   * vocabulary and other social aspects of the domain in question
   * how existing products are used

It helps to projects by:

   * providing credibility and authority, since design decisions can be traced
     to research results
   * uniting the team with a common understanding of domain issues and user
     concerns
   * empowering management to make more informed decisions about product design
     issues

It helps to answer questions like:

   * How does the product fit into the broader context of people's lives?
   * What goals motivate people to use the product, and what basic tasks help
     people accomplish these goals?
   * What experiences do people find compelling? How do these relate to the
     product being designed?
   * What problems do people encounter with their current ways of doing things?


Qualitative research tries to understand the user population as human beings,
and finds valuable business insights that are not revealed through traditional
market research.

## Types of qualitative research

It will present techniques from a pragmatic perspective. The qualitative
research activities that have found to be most useful are:

   * stakeholder interviews
   * subject matter expert (SME) interviews
   * user and customer interviews
   * user observation/ethnographic field studies
   * literature review
   * product/prototype and competitive audits

### Stakeholder interviews

Research for any new product design should start by understanding the business
and technical context surrounding the product.

Lemma: Design is a conversation with materials. The designer must understand the
capabilities and limitations of these "materials" that will be used to construct
the product.

Stakeholder: anyone with authority and/or responsibility for the product being
designed. Stakeholders are key members of the organization commissioning the
design work, and typically include executives, managers, and representative
contributors from development, sales, product management, marketing, customer
support, design, and usability.

This kind of interviews should occur before any user research begins, because
these discussions often inform how user research is conducted. It is usually
most effective to interview each stakeholder in isolation, rather than in a
larger, cross-departmental group.

Important information gathered on this kind of interviews:

	  * Preliminary product vision.
	  * Budget and schedule.
	  * Technical constraints and opportunities.
	  * Business drivers.
	  * Stakeholders' perceptions of the user.

As a designer, your job is to develop a vision that the entire team believes in.
Without taking the time to understand everyone's perspective, it's unlikely that
they will feel that proposed solutions reflect their priorities. These people
have the responsibility and authority to deliver the product to the real world.
So, they have important knowdledge and opinions.


### SME interviews

Experts on the domain within which the product will operate.

Many SMEs were users of the product or its predecessors at one time. Maybe they
are now trainers, consultants, or managers.

They are necessary in complex or specialized domains. Use SMEs toget information
on industry best practices and complex regulations.

You will want accesss to SMEs throughout the design process.


### Customer interviews

Customers of a product are those who make the decision to purchase it. For
consumer products, customers are frequently users of the product. In the case of
most enterprise, medical, or technical products, the customer is someone very
different from the user with distinct goals and needs.

When interviewing customers, you will want to understand:

     - their goals in purchasing the product
     - their frustration with current solutions
     - their decision process for purchasing a product of the type you're designing
     - domain-related issues and vocabulary


### Users interviews

Users of a product should be the main focus of the design effort. It's important
to speak to both current and potencial users (good candidates for using the
product in the future).

Information we are interested in learning from users includes:

     - the contextof of how the product fits into their lives or workflow
     - domain knowledge from a user perspective: what do users need to know todo their jobs
     - current tasks and activities
     - goals and motivations for using their product
     - mental model: how users think about their jobs and activities, as well as what expectations users have about the product
     - problems and frustrations with current products


### User observation

Interviews performed outside the context of the situations the designer hopes to
understand will yield less-complete and less-accurate data.

The most effective technique for gathering qualitative user data combines
interviewing and observation.


#### Ethnographic interviews: contextual inquiry

Based on a master-apprentice model of learning: observing and asking questions
of the user as if she is the master craftsman, and the interviewer the new
apprentice.

Basics for a good engagement:

       - context: interact with and observe the user in her normal work environment
       - partnership: the interview and observation should take the tone of a collaborative exploration with the user
       - interpretation: much of the work is reading between the lines of facts, environment and sayings
       - focus: do not use a strict questionnaire


## Goal-oriented questions

   - Goals. What makes a good day? A bad day?
   - Opportunity. What activities currently waste your time?
   - Priorities. What is most important to you?
   - Information. What helps you make decisions?


## System-oriented questions

   - Function. What are the most common things you do with the product?
   - Frequency. What parts of the product do you use most?
   - Preference. What are you favorite aspects of the product? What drives you
     crazy?
   - Failure. How do you work around problems?
   - Expertise. What shortcuts do you employ?


## Workflow-oriented questions

   - Process. What did you do when you first came in today? And after that?
   - Ocurrence and recurrence. How often do you this? What things do you do
     weekly or monthly, but not every day?
   - Exception. What constitues a typical day? What would be an unsual event?


## Attitude-oriented questions

   - Aspiration. What do you see yourself doing five years from now?
   - Avoidance. What would you prefer not to do? What do you procrastinate on?
   - Motivation. What do you enjoy most about your job? What do you always
     tackle first?